feat(.NET): Distributed Tracing (without performance) (#8024)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/platform-includes/distributed-tracing/custom-instrumentation/dotnet.mdx

> On this page you will learn how to manually propagate trace information into and out of your .NET application. Please note, that you do not need to do this manually, if you [use one of our supported frameworks](/platforms/dotnet/usage/distributed-tracing/#how-to-use-distributed-tracing), or you have our <PlatformLink to="/performance/">performance monitoring feature</PlatformLink> turned on.

Reviewer: >  you do not need to do this manually, if you [use one of our supported frameworks](/platforms/dotnet/usage/distributed-tracing/#how-to-use-distributed-tracing)

This link doesn't make sense for this scenario, since the "How to Use Distributed Tracing?" section doesn't say anything about frameworks that automatically support distributed tracing. (For example, like Java's does https://docs.sentry.io/platforms/java/usage/distributed-tracing/#how-to-use-distributed-tracing)

Maybe rework this this paragraph to something like:

```suggestion
On this page you will learn how to manually propagate trace information into and out of your .NET application. Please note, that you do not need to do this manually if you have our <PlatformLink to="/performance/">performance monitoring feature</PlatformLink> turned on.
```

Reviewer: Or if there are frameworks or another way that automatically supports this, modify that section: https://sentry-docs-git-feat-distributed-trace-dotnet.sentry.dev/platforms/dotnet/usage/distributed-tracing/?original_referrer=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fgetsentry%2Fsentry-docs%2Fpull%2F8024#how-to-use-distributed-tracing

Author: Thanks for the catch. I updated that part as well.

To set it up manually, all you have to do is to make sure your application extracts incoming headers and to set those headers again when making an outgoing request within your application.

## Step 1) Extract Incoming Tracing Information

Incoming tracing information has to be extracted and stored in memory for later use. Sentry provides the `ContinueTrace()` function to help you with this. Incoming tracing information can come from HTTP headers, for example, by another Sentry SDK used in your frontend project.

Here's an example of how to extract and store incoming tracing information using `ContinueTrace()`:

```csharp
using System;
using System.Net.Http;
using Sentry;

var httpContext = ...;

var sentryTraceHeader = httpContext.Request.Headers.GetValueOrDefault("sentry-trace");

> var sentryBaggageHeader = httpContext.Request.Headers.GetValueOrDefault("baggage");

Reviewer 2: As we talked offline lets not point users to HTTP here, we auto instrument ASP.NET and ASP.NET Core so they can get it from `SentrySdk` or start a new transaction and bind that to the scope and then it's avaiable.

try
{
    var transactionContext = SentrySdk.ContinueTrace(sentryTraceHeader, sentryBaggageHeader);

>     var transaction = Sentry.startTransaction(transactionContext);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    var transaction = SentrySdk.StartTransaction(transactionContext);
```

}
catch (FormatException e)
{
    // Handle invalid trace header
    e.Data["bad-sentry-header"] = sentryTraceHeader;
    SentrySdk.CaptureException(e);
}
```

If you pass these headers to Sentry's `ContinueTrace()` function it will store them in memory for later use.

## Step 2) Inject Tracing Information to Outgoing Requests

For distributed tracing to work, the two headers `sentry-trace` and `baggage`, must now also be added to outgoing requests.

> If you are sending outgoing HTTP requests with a HTTP client that has the `SentryHttpMessageHandler` this tracing information is automatically added to outgoing requests. You do not have to enable Performance for distributed tracing to work.

Reviewer: It feels like there's a word missing here? Or I might be reading it wrong.

Here's a potential suggestion that sounds more grammatically correct, but please make sure it's factually correct :D

```suggestion
If you send outgoing HTTP requests with an HTTP client that uses `SentryHttpMessageHandler`, this tracing information is automatically added to outgoing requests. You do not have to enable Performance for distributed tracing to work.
```

To set it up manually, all you have to do is to make sure your application extracts incoming headers and to set those headers again when making an outgoing request within your application.

## Step 1) Extract Incoming Tracing Information

Incoming tracing information has to be extracted and stored in memory for later use. Sentry provides the `ContinueTrace()` function to help you with this. Tracing information can come from incoming headers, for example, by another Sentry SDK used in your frontend project.

Here's an example using RabbitMQ of how to extract and store incoming tracing information using `ContinueTrace()`:

```csharp
using System.Text;
using RabbitMQ.Client.Events;
using Sentry;

using var channel = ...;
var consumer = new EventingBasicConsumer(channel);
consumer.Received += (model, ea) =>
{
    // Extract headers from the incoming message
    var headers = ea.BasicProperties.Headers;

>     if (headers != null)

Reviewer 2: would u want a transaction even if there's no headers? But I guess for a demo itdoesn't matter

        }
        if (headers.TryGetValue("baggage", out var baggageHeader))
        {
            sentryBaggageHeader = Encoding.UTF8.GetString((byte[])baggageHeader);
        }

        var transactionContext = SentrySdk.ContinueTrace(sentryTraceHeader, sentryBaggageHeader);
        var transaction = SentrySdk.StartTransaction(transactionContext);
    }
}
```

If you pass these headers to Sentry's `ContinueTrace()` function it will store them in memory for later use.

## Step 2) Inject Tracing Information to Outgoing Requests

For distributed tracing to work, the two headers `sentry-trace` and `baggage`, must now also be added to outgoing requests.

If you send outgoing HTTP requests with an HTTP client that uses `SentryHttpMessageHandler`, this tracing information is automatically added to outgoing requests. You do not have to enable Performance for distributed tracing to work.

If you're not using the `SentryHttpMessageHandler`, you can generate this tracing information with the Sentry SDK's `GetTraceHeader()` and `GetBaggage()` functions. Here's an example using RabbitMQ:

```csharp
using RabbitMQ.Client;
using Sentry;

> using var channel = ...;

Reviewer 2: could `...` be replaced with the actual/real API?
